# [1603. Design Parking System](https://leetcode.com/problems/design-parking-system/)
<span style="color:green">Easy</span>   <button><svg viewBox="0 0 24 24" width="1em" height="1em" class="icon__1Md2"><path fill-rule="evenodd" d="M7 19v-8H4v8h3zM7 9c0-.55.22-1.05.58-1.41L14.17 1l1.06 1.05c.27.27.44.65.44 1.06l-.03.32L14.69 8H21c1.1 0 2 .9 2 2v2c0 .26-.05.5-.14.73l-3.02 7.05C19.54 20.5 18.83 21 18 21H4a2 2 0 0 1-2-2v-8a2 2 0 0 1 2-2h3zm2 0v10h9l3-7v-2h-9l1.34-5.34L9 9z"></path></svg><span>859</span></button>   <button><svg viewBox="0 0 24 24" width="1em" height="1em" class="icon__1Md2"><path fill-rule="evenodd" d="M17 3v12c0 .55-.22 1.05-.58 1.41L9.83 23l-1.06-1.05c-.27-.27-.44-.65-.44-1.06l.03-.32.95-4.57H3c-1.1 0-2-.9-2-2v-2c0-.26.05-.5.14-.73l3.02-7.05C4.46 3.5 5.17 3 6 3h11zm-2 12V5H6l-3 7v2h9l-1.34 5.34L15 15zm2-2h3V5h-3V3h3a2 2 0 0 1 2 2v8a2 2 0 0 1-2 2h-3v-2z"></path></svg><span>326</span></button>  Acc: 88.04918340089509
---
Algorithms

Tags:
- Design
- Simulation
- Counting

Design a parking system for a parking lot. The parking lot has three kinds of parking spaces: big, medium, and small, with a fixed number of slots for each size.

Implement the `ParkingSystem` class:

* `ParkingSystem(int big, int medium, int small)` Initializes object of the `ParkingSystem` class. The number of slots for each parking space are given as part of the constructor.
* `bool addCar(int carType)` Checks whether there is a parking space of `carType` for the car that wants to get into the parking lot. `carType` can be of three kinds: big, medium, or small, which are represented by `1`, `2`, and `3` respectively. **A car can only park in a parking space of its** `carType`. If there is no space available, return `false`, else park the car in that size space and return `true`.

**Example 1:**


**Input**
["ParkingSystem", "addCar", "addCar", "addCar", "addCar"]
[[1, 1, 0], [1], [2], [3], [1]]
**Output**
[null, true, true, false, false]

**Explanation**
ParkingSystem parkingSystem = new ParkingSystem(1, 1, 0);
parkingSystem.addCar(1); // return true because there is 1 available slot for a big car
parkingSystem.addCar(2); // return true because there is 1 available slot for a medium car
parkingSystem.addCar(3); // return false because there is no available slot for a small car
parkingSystem.addCar(1); // return false because there is no available slot for a big car. It is already occupied.

**Constraints:**

* `0 <= big, medium, small <= 1000`
* `carType` is `1`, `2`, or `3`
* At most `1000` calls will be made to `addCar`

**Hints:**
- Record number of parking slots still available for each car type.

*Generated by [leetcode generator](https://github.com/unsupo/leetcode)*